So what are actually functions functions before my calculation all and data within a column and it returns
just one result right.
So you can see on the right hand side we have a customer first and last name from our customers table
and you can see when we select staw from the Customers table it returns multiple ways.
So it returns all the customers within our table.
But if we were to perform an aggregate function on this table it would perform a calculation on these
columns and just return one row.
So for example let's say we were to perform the count aggregate function on this column.
This last name column then is going to count the number of rows within the last name column the number
of entries in that last name column and it's going to return one result.
So the number of rows in this table.
So that's for an aggregate function does it performs a calculation on a column and it which returns
just one value.
So you can also use GROUP BY clauses to group the results by one or more columns.
So let's say we wanted to count the number of customers in our customers table.
But we wanted to keep this data by their last name then we use a group by close on the last name column
and for every unique last name is going to tell us how many customers we have.
With that last name.
So you can see in the right hand side the screen shot we have John Smith and Mark Smith.
So if we were to group by last name is going to return Smith with a value of two and any other repeated
last names are going to have a value of more than one.
If there's only one person we that last name then it was just returned 1.
But basically we're to return a value for every unique last name that we have in our customers table.
I mean we're grouping data by column.
We can use the having close in a similar way to how we use the wackos in a select statement.
So having And where are quite similar we say grouped by a caller and having this set some value.
So we're learning more about the having closed later on in this section but that's basically what they
are having closed doors and they aggregate functions that we're going to learn about count some men
Max an average.